README.md, before:

# DRF-schema-adapter

`drf-schema-adapter` is a set of tools used to make it as straight-forward to declare an API endpoint
as it is to declare a new `ModelAdmin` in Django and export the corresponding definition to frontend
frameworks and libraries

## Installation

`drf-schema-adapter` is compatible with python 2.7 and 3.4+, Django 1.8 and DRF 3.3+

### With pip

`pip install drf-schema-adapter`

### From source

Within the source directory:

`python setup.py install`

## Basic sage

First of all you'll need to import the default EndpointRouter in your urls.py file.

`from drf_auto_endpoint.router import router`

As well as add its urls to your `urlpatterns` in `urls.py`, the same way you would with DRF's
`DefaultRouter`.

```
urlpatterns = [
    ...
    url(r'^api/', include(router.urls)),
    ...
]
```

### Prototyping

The quickest way to get a working endpoint is to register a model with the router. Register accepts
an optional keyword argument for the `url` associated to that endpoint. By default the url for an
endpoint willbe `app_label/verbose_name_plural`

```
from drf_auto_endpoint.router import router
from my_app.models import MyModel, OtherModel

router.register(MyModel)
router.register(OtherModel, url='my_custom_url')

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^api/', include(router.urls)),
]
```

### Exporting to the frontend

First add `'export_app'` to your setting's `INSTALLED_APPS`, then run:

`./manage.py export --adapter_name EmberAdapter samples/products`

## Full documentation

For a (way) more complete documentation, please see http://drf-schema-adapter.readthedocs.io

## Related projects

- Django:
  - [Django Rest Framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/)
  - [DRF-Base64](https://bitbucket.org/levit_scs/drf_base64)
- Ember:
  - [ember-cli-dynamic-model](https://bitbucket.org/levit_scs/ember-cli-dynamic-model)
  - [ember-cli-crudities](https://bitbucket.org/levit_scs/ember-cli-crudities)
- Angular:
  - [angular-formly](http://angular-formly.com/)
- React:
  _nothing so far_
- Third-party adapters:
  _nothing so far_

## Contibuting guide-lines

If you'd like to contibute to *DRF-schema-adapter**, you are more than welcome to do so. In order to
make contributing to this project a rich experience for everyone, please follow these guide-lines:

- First, fork the project with your own github account, build your code on your own repository and
submit a pull-request once your contribution is ready
- Before contributing a bug-fix or new feature, create an issue explaining what the problem/need is
first. When submitting your pull-request, make sure to reference the original issue
- For any code you contribute, make sure to follow PEP8 recommendation (soft line-limit 100, hard
limit 120)
- For bug-fixes, please first write a test that will fail with the current code and passes using your
patch. For easier evaluation, please do so in 2 separate commits
- For new features, if your feature can be implemented as a third-party app (like new adapters), please
don't contribute them to this repo, publish your own application and open an issue telling us about it.
We will make sure to add a link to your application in this README.
- Read and respect the [Code Of Conduct](./COC.md)

## ToDo

- [ ] Write better documentation
- [ ] Write more/better tests
- [ ] Enable admin-like registration mechanism
- [ ] Add languages information when django-model-translation is installed

---

License information available [here](LICENSE.md).

Contributors code of conduct is available [here](COC.md). Note that this COC **will** be enforced.

Commit message:

:book: add metadata usage to README

README.md, after:

# DRF-schema-adapter

`drf-schema-adapter` is a set of tools used to make it as straight-forward to declare an API endpoint
as it is to declare a new `ModelAdmin` in Django and export the corresponding definition to frontend
frameworks and libraries

## Installation

`drf-schema-adapter` is compatible with python 2.7 and 3.4+, Django 1.8 and DRF 3.3+

### With pip

`pip install drf-schema-adapter`

### From source

Within the source directory:

`python setup.py install`

## Basic sage

First of all you'll need to import the default EndpointRouter in your urls.py file.

`from drf_auto_endpoint.router import router`

As well as add its urls to your `urlpatterns` in `urls.py`, the same way you would with DRF's
`DefaultRouter`.

```
urlpatterns = [
    ...
    url(r'^api/', include(router.urls)),
    ...
]
```

### Prototyping

The quickest way to get a working endpoint is to register a model with the router. Register accepts
an optional keyword argument for the `url` associated to that endpoint. By default the url for an
endpoint willbe `app_label/verbose_name_plural`

```
from drf_auto_endpoint.router import router
from my_app.models import MyModel, OtherModel

router.register(MyModel)
router.register(OtherModel, url='my_custom_url')

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^api/', include(router.urls)),
]
```

### Adding schema information to your `OPTIONS` calls

Django REST framework provides the ability to customize thos calls thanks to
[metadata classes](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/metadata/).

Setup DRF to use one of **DRF-schema-adapter**'s metadata classes to get shcema information:

```
## settings.py

...
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_METADATA_CLASS': 'drf_auto_endpoint.metadata.AutoMetadata',
}
```


### Exporting to the frontend

First add `'export_app'` to your setting's `INSTALLED_APPS`, then run:

`./manage.py export --adapter_name EmberAdapter samples/products`

## Full documentation

For a (way) more complete documentation, please see http://drf-schema-adapter.readthedocs.io

## Related projects

- Django:
  - [Django Rest Framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/)
  - [DRF-Base64](https://bitbucket.org/levit_scs/drf_base64)
- Ember:
  - [ember-cli-dynamic-model](https://bitbucket.org/levit_scs/ember-cli-dynamic-model)
  - [ember-cli-crudities](https://bitbucket.org/levit_scs/ember-cli-crudities)
- Angular:
  - [angular-formly](http://angular-formly.com/)
- React:
  _nothing so far_
- Third-party adapters:
  _nothing so far_

## Contibuting guide-lines

If you'd like to contibute to *DRF-schema-adapter**, you are more than welcome to do so. In order to
make contributing to this project a rich experience for everyone, please follow these guide-lines:

- First, fork the project with your own github account, build your code on your own repository and
submit a pull-request once your contribution is ready
- Before contributing a bug-fix or new feature, create an issue explaining what the problem/need is
first. When submitting your pull-request, make sure to reference the original issue
- For any code you contribute, make sure to follow PEP8 recommendation (soft line-limit 100, hard
limit 120)
- For bug-fixes, please first write a test that will fail with the current code and passes using your
patch. For easier evaluation, please do so in 2 separate commits
- For new features, if your feature can be implemented as a third-party app (like new adapters), please
don't contribute them to this repo, publish your own application and open an issue telling us about it.
We will make sure to add a link to your application in this README.
- Read and respect the [Code Of Conduct](./COC.md)

## ToDo

- [ ] Write better documentation
- [ ] Write more/better tests
- [ ] Enable admin-like registration mechanism
- [ ] Add languages information when django-model-translation is installed

---

License information available [here](LICENSE.md).

Contributors code of conduct is available [here](COC.md). Note that this COC **will** be enforced.
