docs/index.md, before:

# DRF-schema-adapter

**DRF-schema-adapter**'s goal is to provide a toolset to help you create fully dynamic
clients from **[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)** and
**[Django REST framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/)**. Given the right
frontend tools it can even help you to build a full-fledge admin.

## Compatibility Matrix

**DRF-schema-adapter** is compatible with the following matrix

|                 | Py 2.7      | Py 3.4      | Py 3.5      | Py 3.6      |
| --------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| **Django 1.8**  | DRF 3.3-3.6 | DRF 3.3-3.6 | DRF 3.3-3.6 | DRF 3.3-3.6 |
| **Django 1.9**  | DRF 3.3+    | DRF 3.3+    | DRF 3.3+    | DRF 3.3+    |
| **Django 1.10** | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    |
| **Django 1.11** | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    |
| **Django 2.0**  | No          | No          | DRF 3.7+    | DRF 3.7+    |

:warning: For DRF 3.2, (Django 1.8 only), use version 0.9.56 or prior

## Installation

### With pip

`pip install drf-schema-adapter`

### From source

Within the source directory:

`python setup.py install`

## Demo application

You can see a demo application running at
[https://djembersample.pythonanywhere.com/](https://djembersample.pythonanywhere.com/).


## Table Of Content

### Tutorials

- [Quick Start](./cookbooks/basics/quickstart.md)
- [Getting started - Django only](./cookbooks/basics/endpoints.md)
- [Getting started - Django and Ember](./cookbooks/basics/ember.md)

### How-To's

- [Create a custom metadata adapter](./cookbooks/topics/custom_metadata_adapter.md)
- [Create a custom export adapter](./cookbooks/topics/custom_export_adapter.md)
- [Use custom viewsets](./cookbooks/topics/viewsets.md)
- [Use custom serializers](./cookbooks/topics/serializers.md)
- [Actions without extra data](./cookbooks/topics/actions.md)
- [Actions with extra data](./cookbooks/topics/wizards.md)

### Specifications

- [drf_auto_endpoint](./drf_auto_endpoint/index.md)
- [Provided Metadata adapters](./drf_auto_endpoint/metadata.md#adapters)
- [export_app](./export_app/index.md)
- [Provided export adapters](./export_app/index.md#adapters)

### More

- [Code of Conduct](./COC.md)
- [More about Metadata](./drf_auto_endpoint/metadata.md)
- [More about `Endpoint`'s](./drf_auto_endpoint/endpoint.md)

---

License information available [here](LICENSE.md).

Contributors code of conduct is available [here](COC.md). Note that this COC **will**
be enforced.

Commit message:

:book: mention django-filter 2.x incompatibilities in docs

docs/index.md, after:

# DRF-schema-adapter

**DRF-schema-adapter**'s goal is to provide a toolset to help you create fully dynamic
clients from **[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)** and
**[Django REST framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/)**. Given the right
frontend tools it can even help you to build a full-fledge admin.

## Compatibility Matrix

**DRF-schema-adapter** is compatible with the following matrix

|                 | Py 2.7      | Py 3.4      | Py 3.5      | Py 3.6      |
| --------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| **Django 1.8**  | DRF 3.3-3.6 | DRF 3.3-3.6 | DRF 3.3-3.6 | DRF 3.3-3.6 |
| **Django 1.9**  | DRF 3.3+    | DRF 3.3+    | DRF 3.3+    | DRF 3.3+    |
| **Django 1.10** | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    |
| **Django 1.11** | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    | DRF 3.4+    |
| **Django 2.0**  | No          | No          | DRF 3.7+    | DRF 3.7+    |

:warning: For DRF 3.2, (Django 1.8 only), use version 0.9.56 or prior

:warning: Django-filter 2.x dropped support for Python2 and Django < 1.11,
update your requirements accordingly if this affects you

## Installation

### With pip

`pip install drf-schema-adapter`

### From source

Within the source directory:

`python setup.py install`

## Demo application

You can see a demo application running at
[https://djembersample.pythonanywhere.com/](https://djembersample.pythonanywhere.com/).


## Table Of Content

### Tutorials

- [Quick Start](./cookbooks/basics/quickstart.md)
- [Getting started - Django only](./cookbooks/basics/endpoints.md)
- [Getting started - Django and Ember](./cookbooks/basics/ember.md)

### How-To's

- [Create a custom metadata adapter](./cookbooks/topics/custom_metadata_adapter.md)
- [Create a custom export adapter](./cookbooks/topics/custom_export_adapter.md)
- [Use custom viewsets](./cookbooks/topics/viewsets.md)
- [Use custom serializers](./cookbooks/topics/serializers.md)
- [Actions without extra data](./cookbooks/topics/actions.md)
- [Actions with extra data](./cookbooks/topics/wizards.md)

### Specifications

- [drf_auto_endpoint](./drf_auto_endpoint/index.md)
- [Provided Metadata adapters](./drf_auto_endpoint/metadata.md#adapters)
- [export_app](./export_app/index.md)
- [Provided export adapters](./export_app/index.md#adapters)

### More

- [Code of Conduct](./COC.md)
- [More about Metadata](./drf_auto_endpoint/metadata.md)
- [More about `Endpoint`'s](./drf_auto_endpoint/endpoint.md)

---

License information available [here](LICENSE.md).

Contributors code of conduct is available [here](COC.md). Note that this COC **will**
be enforced.
